IMPORTANT - Read this license carefully before installing the Software. Some license restrictions are implemented by an electronic license file interpreted by a license manager. This is an agreement between you, the corporation, organization or individual that purchased this Software ("You") and ARC International I.P., Inc. (“Licensor”). BY OPENING THE PACKAGE THAT CONTAINS THE MEDIA, COMPUTER SOFTWARE, AND USER DOCUMENTATION (COLLECTIVELY, THE "SOFTWARE") OR INSTALLING THE SOFTWARE, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE LICENSE FILE, AND CERTIFICATE (COLLECTIVELY, THE "AGREEMENT"). IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNOPENED PACKAGE AND THE ACCOMPANYING ITEMS (INCLUDING WRITTEN MATERIALS AND BINDERS OR OTHER CONTAINERS) TO YOUR SUPPLIER.

1. Definitions. "Licensed Product" is defined to be an embedded system consisting of a single, fielded application using a single Processor that can be defined by an assigned model name or number. "Processor" is defined to be a single semiconductor part defined by the semiconductor manufacturer part number. "Developer Seat" is defined as the right of an individual employee or contractor of Yours to use and develop with the Software Tools to create software for Licensed Product. “Software Tools” is that portion of the Software distributed in binary form for execution on a host computer. “Software Source Code” or “SSC” is that portion of the Software distributed in source-code form. “Software Object Code” or “SOC” is that derivative of the SSC that results from compilation, assembly, and/or linking. “Documentation” is the written materials accompanying the Software that explains its functions and operation.

2. Grant of License. Licensor grants You a limited license to use the Software only as specified in this Agreement and the Software Registration Certificate (“Certificate”). You must register to receive the key which will unlock the CD. You agree to use the Software only for the purposes specified in this Agreement and to make copies of the Software and the generated code only as allowed in this Agreement.

You also agree not to interfere with the installation of the license manager when the Software is installed and not to modify or try to subvert the license manager.

You shall not transfer this license except for the specific distribution rights granted to You below. You shall not transfer this license to a different Licensed Product without prior written authorization of Licensor and the payment of additional fees.

You may copy the SSC only as necessary for You to use the Software on the computers that are licensed for development of the Licensed Product. You may not make a number of copies of the Software Tools that exceeds the number of purchased Developer Seats.

2.1 Development. You are granted a non-exclusive right to use the Software Tools for each Developer Seat purchased, as restricted in Sections 2.3 and 2.4 (the “Tools License”). You are granted a non-exclusive right to use the SSC for Your internal development work on a single Licensed Product, as restricted in regard to the SOC in Sections 2.2 and 2.3 (the “Project License”). You may use the SSC on any number of computers owned, issued, or controlled by You provided that such use shall be limited to the Licensed Product.

2.2 Software Source Code License. Licensor grants You a non-exclusive license to use, possess, and reproduce copies of the SSC for the following four (4) limited purposes only:
    - to permit You to understand the operation of the SSC
    - to permit You to make minor modifications to the SSC
    - to permit You to support sublicensees of Your own software based on the SSC, without disclosing any part of the SSC to them
    - to create composite works by combining the SSC or derivatives of it in object-code form with Your own software

No rights to distribute or sublicense SSC are granted under this Agreement.

2.3 Software Object Code Distribution. You may distribute to Your customers the SOC incorporated in embedded form into the Licensed Product to the extent that such incorporation is necessary to enable use of the Licensed Product, all or a portion of which may be statically or dynamically linked with modules produced by the compiler from Your sources to become an integral part of an executable program (an "App"). You may use and distribute Apps without the payment of additional license fees, provided that You indemnify and hold Licensor and its suppliers harmless from any and all claims arising out of the sale, license, or any other use of Apps, and in the case of dynamic linking, You restrict by license the use of the SOC to only indirect use through Apps. Any failure to provide this indemnity or license restriction voids Your license to use the SOC. Suggested license-restriction language:

"The App is supplied with a dynamically linked library ("DLL") with the name "file name" that is used by the App. You are licensed to use the DLL file name only in this indirect way, through use of the App."

Neither You nor Your customers shall distribute the SOC as a stand-alone product. Neither You nor Your customers shall distribute in any form the SSC, software libraries of the Software, or the Documentation for the Software. Your customers’ rights to the SOC shall be limited to use of the SOC only as part of the Licensed Product. Your customers shall have no right to copy or further distribute the SOC without the Licensed Product. You shall not make available to Your customer the application programming interface (API) of the SOC.

In the case that Your application is itself a library, You must also restrict by license each licensee of Your application in a substantially similar way; we suggest using in Your license agreement the preceding suggested license-restriction language, with "The App" replaced appropriately, and also this sentence.

2.4 Run-Time Library. In addition to the license grants in Sections 2.2 and 2.3, You are granted the right to use the Software Tools Run-Time Library SSC and Software Tools Run-Time Library SOC on any number of Licensed Products.

2.5 Demonstration or Evaluation. In the case that this is a demonstration or evaluation license, You agree to use the Software only for the purposes of evaluation, and not to develop or modify applications for purposes of production or sale. You further agree to make no permanent copies of the Software or the code generated by the Software and to destroy all copies of the software after the demonstration or evaluation unless You then purchase a permanent license.

3. Ownership. The Software is licensed, not sold, to You for use only under the terms of Agreement. You acknowledge and agree that the Software consists of proprietary, unpublished products of Licensor and/or its third party licensors, protected under copyright law and trade secret laws. All rights, title, and interest in and to the Software are and shall remain with Licensor and/or its third party licensors, except for the non-exclusive license granted to You as expressly provided in this Agreement.

4. Copyright. The Software copyright is owned by Licensor or its suppliers, and is protected by United States copyright laws and international treaty provisions. Licensor does not transfer title to the Software to You, but retains the rights to make and license the use of all copies. Therefore, You may make no copies of the Software except as expressly permitted under this Agreement, or to reproduce it in any way, except that You may either (a) make copies of the Software solely for back-up or archival purposes, or (b) copy the Software to a single hard disk, provided You keep the original and any copies solely for back-up or archival purposes. The Software Documentation is provided in digital form, in printed form (manuals), or both. You may print or copy the Documentation as needed to assist licensed users with the operation of the Software. Any other use or duplication of the Documentation is prohibited. In all copies, regardless of media, whether modified or unmodified or merged in whole or in part with other material, You shall include Licensor's copyright and any third party licensors’ copyright and any other proprietary notices.

5. Other Restrictions. You may not rent or lease the Software to a third party. You may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the Software, or translate or modify it in any way. See the license file for any other restrictions.

6. Term. This Agreement shall become effective when You open the package or install the Software, whichever is earlier. and may terminate upon either of the following conditions: (a) expiration of the FlexLM license provided for the Software, or (b) termination by Licensor for cause if You fail to comply with any provision of this Agreement. If Licensor terminates the Agreement for cause, You shall, at Licensor's option, either return to Licensor or destroy, all copies in any form of the Software, excluding copies that You have previously distributed to Your customers under the terms of this Agreement.

7. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between the parties and supersedes any proposals, discussions, or negotiations between them related to the subject matter of this Agreement. This Agreement may be amended, altered, or modified only by a writing dated subsequent to this Agreement and signed by Licensor.

8. Limited Warranty. Licensor's warranty as set forth in this section is conditioned upon Your registering the Software and obtaining a Certificate. Licensor warrants for thirty (30) days from the date of shipment that the Software shall operate substantially in accordance with the Documentation. If during the warranty period You notify Licensor of any nonconformity between the Software and the Documentation, Licensor shall use its reasonable efforts to correct such nonconformity within a reasonable time after receiving proper notification. Any hardware that is furnished with the Software shall be furnished “AS IS” and without warranty of any kind. This warranty is void with respect to any portion of the Software or Documentation that is modified. Licensor does not warrant the Software will operate with third party software or hardware. This warranty shall not cover installation, adjustment, or connection of the Software. The warranty shall cover normal use and wear, and shall not cover damage that occurs in shipment or failure that results from alteration, accident, misuse, or abuse. Except as stated above, neither Licensor, its licensors, nor its distributors grant any warranties, express or implied, of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or that the use of the Software shall be uninterrupted or error free. These warranties give You specific legal rights, and You may also have other rights, which vary from U.S. state to state.

9. Customer Remedies. If You discover nonconformities between the Software and the Documentation, Your exclusive remedy will be to notify Licensor, during the warranty period. Licensor shall, at its option, either (a) replace the Software or Documentation, or (b) return the license fee You paid and terminate this Agreement. Any replacement Software or Documentation will be warranted for the remainder of the original warranty period or thirty (30) days, whichever is longer.

10. Warranty Disclaimer. EXCEPT FOR THE FOREGOING, THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND AND LICENSOR EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.

11. Limitation of Liability. IN NO EVENT SHALL LICENSOR OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHER LEGAL THEORY, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

12. Dangerous Applications. The Software is not designed, intended, or certified for use in components of systems intended for the operation of weapons, weapons systems, nuclear installations, means of mass transportation, aviation, life-support computers or equipment (including resuscitation equipment and surgical implants), pollution control, hazardous substances management, or for any other dangerous application in which the failure of the Software could create a situation where personal injury or death or physical damages to property may occur ("Dangerous Applications"). You understand that use of the Software in Dangerous Applications is fully at Your risk. It shall be Your responsibility to obtain any and all certifications and/or approvals required and to take all appropriate fail-safe, backup, redundancy and other measures to ensure the safe use of such applications if the Software is used for Dangerous Applications, and Licensor disclaims liability for any damages caused by such use of the Software.

You will hold harmless, indemnify and defend, and keep Licensor and its third party licensors fully and effectively indemnified against all costs, claims, demands, and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) and any damage awards arising out of or in connection with any claims of personal injury, death, or any other damages of any nature associated with the use of the Software by You in Dangerous Applications.

13. Third Party Disclaimer. The Software may contain or be derived from portions of code and documentation provided by a third party under license to Licensor. Licensor has assumed responsibility for the selection of such code and documentation and its use in producing and licensing the Software. THE THIRD PARTY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE USE OF SUCH CODE OR DOCUMENTATION IN THE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING (WITHOUT LIMITATION) ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. The limitation of liabilities described in this section also applies to any third party supplier of code and documentation supplied to You. Licensor and its third party supplier limitations of liabilities are not cumulative. Such third party supplier is an intended beneficiary of this section.

14. Support and Maintenance Services. Subject to compliance with the terms of this Agreement, and provided that You have registered the Software, obtained a Certificate, and paid any Support and Maintenance fees due, Licensor shall provide to You Support and Maintenance Services as described in Licensor's "Support and Maintenance Services Terms and Conditions" document on Licensor's website. In the event of a conflict between Licensor's "Support and Maintenance Services Terms and Conditions" and this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

15. U.S. Government Restricted Rights.  If You are an agency of the United States Government or if You intend to make available any portion of the Software, including but not limited to the documentation, to the U.S. Government, the license grant herein shall be for Restricted Rights only and the use, duplication or disclosure shall be subject to restrictions as set forth in FAR 52.227.19(c)(2) or subparagraph(c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 and/or in similar or successor clauses in the FAR, or the DOD or NASA FAR Supplement.  You shall include the following legend on any and all copies:

	Copyright © 2005 ARC International I.P., Inc.
	ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
	U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND
	Use, duplication or disclosure by the U.S. Government is subject to restrictions as set forth in 
	FAR 52.227.19(c)(2) or subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software 
	clause at DFARS 252.227 7013 and/or in similar or successor clauses in the FAR, or the DOD or 
	NASA FAR Supplement.
	CONTRACTOR/MANUFACTURER IS ARC International I.P., Inc., 3590 North First Street, Suite 200, 
	San Jose, California 95134.

16. Export Controls. You are responsible for complying with all trade regulations and laws both foreign and domestic. You acknowledge that none of the Software, any direct product thereof, or any underlying information, documentation, or technology may be downloaded or otherwise exported or re-exported (i) into (or to a national or resident of) Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria, or any other country subject to a U.S. embargo; or (ii) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's list of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Commerce Department's Denied Parties List or Entity List. By using the Software, you agree to the foregoing and represent and warrant that (i) no U.S. federal agency has suspended, revoked, or denied your export privileges, (ii) you are not located in or under the control of a national or resident of any such country or on any such list, and (iii) you will not export or re-export the Software to any prohibited country, or to any prohibited person, entity, or end user as specified by U.S. export controls. You agree to indemnify and hold Licensor harmless from any and all costs, damages, fines, or other expenses incurred by Licensor by reason of your violation of your representations in this Section, including Licensor's attorneys' fees.

17. Special Terms for Cryptographic Software. If cryptographic software is licensed under this Agreement, you acknowledge that such software is subject to U.S. Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") and shall permit Licensor to file required reports to the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security. You further:  (a) certify that the cryptographic software is not intended for use by a government end-user, as defined in part 772 of the EAR; (b) acknowledge that the cryptographic software is subject to export controls under the EAR and that a transfer of the source code requires an export license or other authorization from the U.S. Government; (c) certify that you will not use or transfer the cryptographic software for use in any sensitive nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, or missile technology end-uses unless authorized by the U.S. Government by regulation or specific license; and (d) certify that you shall report all exports to Licensor unless an exception to the reporting requirement applies (reporting includes a non-proprietary description of how your end user will use the source code). You further certify that, if you are located outside of the European Union member countries or affiliated countries, that you are not a government end-user.

18. Governing Law. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of California.

19. Audit. Licensor reserves the right to review Your records on reasonable notice to verify compliance with the terms of this Agreement.

20. Assignment. Neither this Agreement nor any rights, obligations, or licenses granted hereunder may be assigned, delegated, or subcontracted by You without the prior written consent of Licensor, which shall not be unreasonably withheld. For avoidance of doubt, any change of control by merger or acquisition of a majority interest or sale of Your assets shall be considered an assignment and this Agreement shall automatically terminate without Licensor's prior written consent to any such assignment. As a condition precedent to Licensor providing such written consent, Licensor reserves the right to: (a) conduct an audit at Your expense; (b) require You or the acquiring company to pay all amounts then outstanding for license fees, royalties, maintenance or support; and (c) require the execution of a separate Consent to Assignment agreement and, if Manufacturing Rights are granted hereunder, such consent to limit any successor's use of the Software to the manufacturing and shipping of Licensed Products which were shipping prior to the date of any such assignment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any attempt to assign, transfer, or sublicense this Agreement or the Software by virtue of a change of control to a direct competitor of Licensor is prohibited. Licensor reserves the right to assign this Agreement or any of Licensor's rights or obligations hereunder to any Licensor affiliate, provided it is a wholly owned subsidiary of ARC International plc or its subsidiaries.

21. General. Terms and conditions contained in any purchase order issued by You shall in no way modify the terms of this Agreement. If any court of competent jurisdiction declares void or unenforceable any provisions of this Agreement, those provisions shall to that extent be deemed omitted, and the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless the waiver is made in writing. No waiver of any breach of any provision of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same or any other provision of this Agreement.

(Should You have any questions concerning this Agreement, please contact ARC International I.P., Inc., 3590 North First Street, Suite 200, San Jose, California 95134.)
